A/A-bar Chain Uniformity

May 1994

Rejean Canac Marquis, B.A., Universite du Quebec a Montreal

M.A., Universite du Quebec a Montreal

PH.D., University of Massachusetts Amherst

Directed by: Professor Margaret Speas

 

This dissertation defends a theory of strict Chain Uniformity based on the
A/A-bar distinction, in part in response to apparent shortcomings for an
A/A-bar syntactic typology. The problems originate with the multiplication
of new functional categories witnessed in the late 80's, whereby new
positions were created without any provision to determine their A/A-bar
status. The problem was compounded by mounting evidence that specifiers of
functional categories could be used either as A or A-bar. Even more
seriously, certain evidence from scrambling languages suggested
simultaneous A/A-bar properties for scrambled positions ('scrambling
paradoxes'). To handle such disparities, alternative typologies have been
proposed (Webelhuth 1988, Chomsky 1989, Deprez 1991, Saito 1992, and
others) which abandon a strict A/A-bar distinction. This thesis advocates
that the A/A-bar distinction per se is perfectly adequate, but its current
implementation requires major modifications.


It is argued that all positions within functional categories are
inherently undetermined w.r.t. their A/A-bar status. Given strict Chain
Uniformity, a chain-contextual determination of these positions is
obtained, i.e. their A/A-bar status is subsumed under algorithms of chain
formation. This eliminates any exponential complexity related to
increasing the number of functional categories, yet allows the
cross-linguistic flexibility the A/A-bar distinction previously lacked.
Operator-variable chains are decomposed in two uniform chains connected
through Agreement-link formation, a strategy independently required for
Null Operator Constructions (NOCs) which is here extended to AgrPs. AgrPs
are thus the crucial interface between A and A-bar chains, and an analysis
of past-participle agreement in French incorporating the challenging
properties of 'exceptional' Exceptional Case Marking in French is shown to
support such a view.


Chapter 2 is part of the general theoretical background and proposes a
review of issues in Bounding theory relevant to Chain formation and the
A/A-bar distinction.


A theory of Weak and Weakest crossover effects which transcends the
A/A-bar Chain distinction is developed in Chapter 4. It is argued that
carefully considering a wide array of facts relevant to such conditions
(which include Lasnik and Stowell's (1991) weakest crossover cases as well
as Postal's (1993) remarks on the latter), WCO effects cannot result from
a unique condition but have two distinct sources, one syntactic which
reduces to a particular implementation of the Bound Anaphora Condition of
Reinhart (1982, 1992), and one semantic which reduces to a particular
version of the biuniqueness condition on operator-variable relations.
Chapter 5 proposes a strict A/A-bar Chain Uniformity approach to
scrambling paradoxes. It is shown that arguments in favor of ambiguous
A/A-bar positions, such as the alleged semantically vacuous status of
scrambling w.r.t. Reconstruction is not a necessary conclusion in light of
more recent approaches to Wh-movement in Japanese (Watanabe 1991, Aoun and
Li 1993), and that intricate properties of scrambling are predicted and
borne out under Chain Uniformity, but remain unexplained under alternative
typologies.


Chapter 6 is devoted to Null Operator Constructions in English, as their
licensing crucially involves both the notion Chain and the agreement Link
strategy extended to Operator-variable chains in Chapter 3. Important
discrepancies w.r.t. various phenomena hold among NOCs and remain
unexplained under standard assumptions. In line with the groundbreaking
work of Jones (1991), it is maintained that Tough movement and Purpose
clauses show properties typical of A-movement (by opposition to A-bar,
Null Operator movement) and require a different treatment from other NOCs.
The analysis capitalizes on the Unified Chain definition, developed
independently in Chapter 3, which encompasses all chain types by
eliminating Case as a defining property of any chain, thus contra the
notion CHAIN (Chomsky 1986a). 



