Gregory N. Carlson: Reference to Kinds in English. 1977. 


ABSTRACT

Gregory N. Carlson, M.A., University of Iowa

Directed by: Professor Elisabeth O. Selkirk

This study focuses on the English "bare plural" construction (determinerless noun phrases with plural heads, such as "dogs" or "intelligent policemen") and proposes a means to account for its semantic properties. This particular construction has been a source of puzzlement for many who have examined it, as its semantics appears to be dictated by the linguistic context in which it occurs. In some cases, it seems to be simply an existentially quantified NP, in others a universally quantified NP, and so forth. To this point, the proposed means for accounting for these meaning differences has been to attribute an ambiguity to a null determiner, and to thereby posit the existence of a multiplicity of null determiners.  It is argued in the second, third and fourth chapters that, instead of following this approach, a more adequate analysis is to be found in treating all instances of a bare plural construction as being syntactically and semantically identical, thus dispensing with ambiguity. It is shown in the fourth chapter how we can devise a semantics which will allow for apparent shifts in meaning without giving different interpretations to the bare plural NPs.  

As reflected in the title of this dissertation, the key to the interpretation of the bare plural, it is argued, resides in the recognition that it functions as the proper name of a kind of thing. For example, "orioles" names a kind of bird, just as "Bob" may name a particular person. It is further argued that the optimal means for representing kinds that is at our disposal is to treat them as being individuals, in a sense explicated in Chapter IV.

A means of representing generic sentences in English arises from the treatment accorded the bare plural. In essence, a generic sentence is one in which some property is attributed directly to the individual itself.  This is in opposition to the proposed treatment of non-generic sentences, where properties are not attributed directly to the individual, but rather to a temporal part of an individual, here called a "stage". In the fifth chapter, we expand our means for representing generic sentences by introducing a verb phrase operator which is shown to account for a number of difficulties raised in Chapter IV. Here is also presented a means of representing the indefinite singular generic NPs, based on the analysis of the bare plural and making use of the operator proposed in Chapter V. The apparent meaning-changing properties of the Passive transformation with regard to generic sentences is also accounted for. Chapter VI turns its attention towards the semantics of other sorts of noun phrases that refer to kinds of things. In addition, here is also presented a semantics for the English word "such", for which the notion of kind appears crucial.In the final chapter a number of further issues are discussed including the definite singular generic noun phrase and the status of the English simple present tense with respect to generic sentences. The work ends with some comments on possible directions for future study.

 


