Issues in the Moraic Structure of Spanish 

September 1991 

Elaine Dunlap, B.A. Colorado College 

M.A. University of Wisconsin 

Ph.D. University of Massachusetts 

Directed by: Professor John J. McCarthy 

  

This dissertation is concerned with the role of the mora in the stress 
system and syllable structure of Spanish. Considerations of stress 
assignment, sonority and the syllabification of high vocoids point to the 
independence of morification from syllabification. It is shown that an 
analysis in which morification precedes syllabification accounts for both 
stress assignment and the syllabification of high vocoids. 


Chapter 1 introduces theoretical assumptions about stress, syllable 
structure and Lexical Phonology in addition to background information from 
Spanish phonology and morphology. 


In Chapter 2 I show that a moraic trochee rule provides a precise and 
explanatorily adequate account of word stress in nouns, adjectives and 
adverbs. I claim that when stress is assigned in Spanish, syllables are 
not present; only mora structure has been assigned. In order to assign 
stress to the mora tier alone, stress assignment (to moras) must be 
distinguished from stress realization (on syllable heads) via 
Head-Prominence Relation which matches up stresses with sonority peaks 
after Syllabification has applied. 


Chapter 3 places the analysis of stress within the framework of Lexical 
phonology. The model adopted has two lexical levels which are governed by 
the Strict Cycle Condition, but which lack multiple cyclicity. I show that 
all cyclic effects can be derived from the interaction of levels. While 
Level 1 stress is mora-sensitive, Level 2-derived forms such as 
diminutives and verbs undergo a syllable-sensitive Level 2 stress rule. 
The general picture which emerges is one in which prosodic rules apply to 
whatever structure is present. 


In Chapter 4 I confirm the hypothesis that stress assignment precedes 
syllabification by showing that the syllabification of high vocoids is 
predictable from mora assignment and stress alone. The proposal is then 
implemented by formulating the morification and syllabification 
algorithms, which are sensitive to distinct sonority scales. 
Chapter 5 examines Spanish cooccurrence restrictions in light of the 
moraic approach to prosodic processes. The sensitivity of onsets and codas 
to distinct sonority hierarchies supports the overall approach in which 
morification and syllabification are likewise sensitive to the same two 
sonority scales. 
  


 