Syntactic Dependencies and Relative Phrases in Hindi

May 1994

Veena Dhar Dwivedi, B.Sc., McGill University

Ph.D., University of Massachusetts Amherst

Directed by: Professor Margaret J. Speas

This dissertation explores various syntactic dependencies from relative
phrases in Hindi. I show that besides scrambling, Topicalization and Left
Dislocation, a fourth A' dependency must be recognized: Topic Dislocation.
This relation is limited to referential Noun Phrases which are related to
null pronominals. Since it is a non-movement relation, it is not subject
to Subjacency. As a result, it may occur in construction with complex Noun
Phrases.


Further, I explore extraction phenomena from the correlative construction
and claim that the relative phrase is not adjoined to the main clause (cf.
Hale 1976, Srivastav 1991a,b); it is asymmetrically co-ordinate to it.
Following Williams (in press) I claim that this is a 'double headed'
construction. Using this characterization plus the fact that left
conjuncts in Hindi are transparent to extraction, I am able to account for
the transparency of both clauses of the correlative construction. Further,
I claim the 'that' clause in Hindi is also asymmetrically co-ordinate to
the main clause. It is not subordinate to it at all. I show that typical
c-command effects do not obtain between the matrix and embedded clause. 
Finally I posit the existence of 'afterthought restrictors'. These are
relative phrases to the right which have been assumed to be right
adjoined. I assume a bar on all right adjunction, and instead claim that
these phrases are linked at the Discourse level to the main clause. This
proposal accounts for the fact that such phrases are completely opaque to
any external syntactic dependency, e.g. Topicalization, Topic Dislocation
and Left Dislocation. since these phrases are not syntactically connected
to the main clause, elements in them may not be c-commanded by the
constituents in the main clause. Without c-command, none of the above
mentioned relations is licensed. My assumption that right adjunction is
barred in Hindi is supported by and supports Kayne 1993, where it is
proposed that right adjunction is universally disallowed.



