Structure Building Operations and Word Order

May 1981

Michael J. Flynn, B.A., University of Notre Dame

Ph.D., University of Massachusetts

Directed by: Professor Barbara Hall Partee

 

One of the goals of linguistic theory is to discover generalizations about
the syntax and semantics of natural languages, and to construct theories
of human cognitive capacity and development that explain these
generalizations. Each statement about language is theory-laden, that is,
the characterizations of a possible generalization are determined by a
theory (regardless of whether or not it is explicit) about the nature of
language. Further, statements about a particular language carry varying
degrees of theoretical commitment. Compare the statements in (1) and (2):


(1) The basic word order in English is such that the object noun phrase
follows the verb, while in Hopi, the object noun phrase precedes the verb.


(2) English has a rule to expand the VP node which has as a special case:
VP --> V NP; whereas the corresponding rule in Hopi has as a special case:
VP --> NP V.

Though, in a sense, the method for checking both (1) and (2) is the same,
(2) presupposes a claim that (1) does not: the incorporation of
context-free phrase structure rules (PS rules) will lead to a revealing
theory about how humans acquire the languages they do.
However, if PS grammars are adopted as a component of the representation
of the knowledge (or belief system) humans acquire in this domain, as was
a natural assumption in the early days of generative grammar, we require
some theory about these rules from which generalizations stated in terms
of them follows. 


For example, alongside (1) and (2) consider (3) and (4):

(3) English is a prepositional language; Hopi is postpositional.

(4) English has (a subcase of) a rule: PP --> P NP; for Hopi: PP --> NP P.

As Greenberg (1963) noticed, statements like (1) and (3) are not
unrelated. In fact, with much greater frequency than chance, (5) and (6)
hold:

(5) If a language has VO order, it will be prepositional.

(6) If a language has OV order, it will be postpositional.

In Montague grammar, there has been little attempt to account for such
generalizations. This dissertation proposes a theory of syntax which
shares some of the features of Montague's work, yet attempts to give a
principled explanation of low-level generalizations. The first two
chapters are an introduction to the theory. Montague's methodology of
stating a tight connection between the syntax and semantics is embraced
and some of his technical apparatus is borrowed. Some ways in which the
theory differs from common pactice in Montague grammar are in (7).

(7) Phrase structure rules are discarded entirely.

Given category assignments to lexical items, hierarchical
organization of phrases is defined universally.
For languages with strict word order, left-to-right ordering of
constituents of phrases is specified by a language-particular word
order convention, which by its very nature is cross categorial.
Chapters three and four extend and elaborate on the proposal in the first
two chapters. A "wrap" convention is introduced for discontinuous
constituents, as are category changing and relating rules which account
for nominalizations and the double role played by adjectives in English.
In the fifth and final chapter, word order conventions for other languages
(Hopi among them) are adduced, and the first steps toward a theory of
ordering conventions are taken.

The goal of the dissertation is to offer support for the view that while
(1) and (3) are generalizations about the languages in question, (2) and
(4) are not. Thus the focus of interest shifts away from a theory which
explains how children acquire a set of PS rules to one which must explain
how they acquire word order conventions.



