Linguistic Principles in Children's Grammar of Complement Subject Interpretation

(August 1978)

Helen Goodluck, B.A., Lancaster University

M.A., Brown University

Ph.D., University of Massachusetts

Directed by: Professor Thomas Roeper

 

As a partial explanation of the child's ability to master his native
language, it has been proposed that linguistic universals limit the
child's hypotheses about the structure of his language. The dissertation
is a study of the role of (putatively universal) principles governing the
adult grammar of some English complement types in the grammar of children
aged four to six years.


Three types of complements with "missing subjects" are studied:
infinitival complements to verbs like 'tell'; '(in order) to' clauses; and
participial complements introduced by a temporal preposition ('while',
'before' and 'after'). The adult grammar is first sketched. Two conditions
governing the rules for interpreting the subject of these complements are
set forth: (1) The matrix NP that is interpreted as the complement subject
must c-command the complement subject position. Some problematic cases for
this condition are also considered. (2) The rule(s) of complement subject
interpretation must apply at a level of structure prior to the application
of stylistic transformations such as complement preposing. The conditions
(1) and (2) are assumed to be linguistic universals.


Children's comprehension of infinitival and participial complements was
tested in two toy manipulation experiments. In general, support was found
for the presence of candidate universals in childrens' grammar.
The response patterns to complements in active matrix sentences and
sentences containing passive and locative PPs are consistent with the
c-command condition on complement subject interpretation, given that
children may misanalyze complements to the S node ('(in order) to' and
temporal participial complements) as VP constituents at an early stage.
Exceptions to this condition in adult grammar are paralleled by
acquisition data from these and other experiments.


The pattern of responses for participial complements in preposed position
is interpreted as evidence that complement subject interpretation applies
at a level of structure prior to the complement preposing rule.
The results with preposed complements are also used to suggest that the
avoidance of backwards pronominal and backwards subject anaphora found in
other research on child language is characteristic only of constructions
in which coreference is optional in the adult language.


A third experiment comparing children's responses to temporal participial
complements and relative clauses in active and passive sentences was
carried out to investigate the hypothesis that some of the results of the
first experiment reflected the child's use of a parsing strategy proposed
in previous research (the conjoined clause analysis), rather than
knowledge of the c-command condition. This hypothesis was not supported by
the results. Some implications of this experiment for the child's phrase
structure rules and the status of the conjoined clause analysis are
examined.


The final section of the dissertation reviews the relationship between
linguistic theory and acquisition data in the light of the experimental
results obtained, and discusses the implications for a learning theory of
natural language of the analysis of children's grammar presented in the
dissertation.


Data gathered on children's comprehension of temporal prepositions is
summarized in an appendix.



