Verbal Nouns: Theta Theoretic Studies in Hebrew and Arabic

February 1991

Ilan Hazout, Licence, Universite de Paris VIII

Maitrise, Universite de Paris VIII

Ph.D., University of Massachusetts

Directed by: Professor Elizabeth Selkirk

This dissertation is a study of a variety of constructions in in ModernHebrew and Standard Arabic which involve nominalization processes. Suchconstructions manifest a certain mixture of verbal and nominal propertiesand are analyzed as involving a verbal subconstituent, a VP, governed byan underlying nominal head, a nominalizer. The surface form of thedeverbal head of such constructions is the output of a head movementoperation adjoining a verb to the nominalizer which governs it. Theproperties and the differences between different types of nominalizationconstructions are explained on the basis of certain assumptions about thethematic properties, the argument structure, of the different nominalizersthat are postulated. The heads of nominalization constructions aremorphological as well as thematic nominalizers in that they provide, inaddition to a particular morphological shape, an argument structureparticular to nouns. In this approach to verbal nouns, the mixedproperties of these constructions are derived from the properties ofunderlying verbs and nouns occuring within a particular configuration.This approach to nominalization is embedded within a particular approachto thematic relations and argument structure combined with derivationtechniques developed in recent work within the Government and Bindingtheory, in particular, the operation known as head movement.

Chapter 1 presents the main theoretical assumptions and includes someproposals concerning the structure of infinitival clauses and thephenomenon of obligatory control. Chapter 2 is a study of genitiveconstructions in Hebrew and Arabic. Chapter 3 is a study of ActionNominalizations and includes a discussion of the issues of lexicalism.Chapter 4 investigates and compares the properties of two types ofinfinitival constructions, standard infinitives and the verbal gerund,which is particular to Modern Hebrew. It also offers an analysis of anominalization construction known as the Nominal Gerund. Chapter 5 studiesthe Agent Nominalization construction and the Benoni relative, aconstruction which is argued to involve a definite article functioning asa thematic nominalizer and an abstract adjectival morpheme which functionsas a morphological nominalizer.

 


