Syntax and Thematics of Infinitival Adjuncts 

September 1985 

Charles F. Jones, B.A., St. John's College 

Ph.D., University of Massachusetts 

Directed by: Emmon Bach 

  

This dissertation is primarily about purpose clauses in English, those apparently infinitival expressions that English speakers include in their sentences to indicate that something has been done for some reason. 

(1) They brought John along [in order to talk to him]. 
(2) They brought John along [to talk about himself to the students]. 
(3) They brought John along [to talk to]. 

In Chapter 1 we will establish that the infinitives in (1) - (3) are indeed adjuncts, that they cannot in general be selected by lexical 
properties of the head verbs of their sentences. In Chapter 2, within the general framework of the theory of Government and Binding (cf. Chomsky (1981)), we will take up two matters. First, we will argue that differing syntactic properties of the infinitives in (1) - (3) follow rather naturally if we consider the infinitive in (1) to be a full S', that in (2) to be a simple S, and that in (3) a bare VP. The other matter we will take up in Chapter 2 will be the conditions under which the unexpressed 
elements in the infinitives in (1) - (3) can be considered to be referentially dependent on other NP elements in the matrix sentence. This referential dependence we call 'control'. Control of these adjuncts is determined by a couple of conditions. The nature of the controlling NP can be characterized within the theories of thematic relations developed by Gruber (1965) and Jackendoff (1972) et seq. The nature of the conditions under which the adjuncts in (1) - (3) can adjoin can only be characterized by such "extra-thematic" notions as "availability" and "agentivity". In Chapter 3 we will suggest an account of the possibilities of extraction 
from the above infinitives. 

In Chapter 4 we will shift our attention principally to the kind of infinitive in (4), which we'll call an 'easy-infinitive' (EI), and the 
relation that sentences like (4) have to sentences like (5). 

(4) That test was very easy [to do]. 
(5) It was easy to do that test. 

The properties of the EI in (4) are virtually identical to the properties of the infinitive sporting an object gap in (3). I suggest they be 
identified.. In Chapter 5, we'll briefly consider how the present account might be incorporated into a couple of other theories of syntax, Generalized Phrase Structure Grammar and Lexical-Functional Grammar. 
  
