NELS 24 1994 (U. of Mass., Amherst: 1993) (2 vols.) [NELS24]

(ed.) M. Gonzàlez

H. Aoyagi & T. Ishii On agreement-inducing vs. non-agreement-inducing NPIs 

E. Buckley Default feature specification: The two [i]’s of Kashaya 

R. Canac Marquis A uniform chain approach to scrambling paradoxes 

R.-M. Déchaine Ellipsis and the position of subjects 

M. den Dikken Auxiliaries and participles 

L. Downing SiSwati verbal reduplication and the thoery of Generalized Alignment 

E. Fleming The role of metrical structure in segmental rules 

E. Gibson & K. Wexler nominative Case assignment and parameter setting in V2 

A. Gnanadesikan The geometry of coronal specifications 

E. Guilfoyle VNPs, finiteness and external arguments 

C. Heycock Focus projection in Japanese 

A. Holmberg & U. Nikanne Expletives and subject positions in Finnish 

S. Iatridou & D. Embick Conditional inversion 

C. Jackubowicz On the morphological specification of reflexives: Implications for acquisition 

Y. Kitagawa Shells, yolks, and scrambled e.g.s 

H. Kitahara A minimalist analysis of cross-linguistically variant CED phenomena 

M. Koizumi Layered specifiers 

H. Lee Anaphora and the principle of referential autonomy 

J.-w. Lin Object expletives, definiteness effect and scope interpretation 

H. LO drup ‘Surface’ proforms in Norweigian and the definiteness effect 

A. Mahajan The ergativity parameter: have-be alternations, word order and split ergativity 

J. McCarthy & A. Prince The emergence of the unmarked: Optimality in Prosodic Morphology 

F. Moltmann & A. Szabolcsi Scope interactions with pair-list quantifiers 

A. Munn A minimalist account of reconstruction asymmetries 

L. Nash On the categorial specification of causative morphemes: evidence from Georgian 

R. Noyer Paradigm structure constraints and lexical generative capacity 

Z. Núnez, C. Foley, R. Proman & B. Lust Subordinate CP and pro-drop: Evidence for degree-n learnability from an experimental study of Spanish and English 

C.O. Orgun Monotonic cyclicity and Optimality Theory 

J. Ormazabal PRO, null Case and the interpretation of Complements 

C.J. Pinón Accumulation and aspectuality in Polish 

P. Portner A uniform semantics for aspectual –ing 

I. Sag & D. Godard Extraction of de-phrases from the French NP 

T. Sano & N. Hyams Agreement, finiteness, and the development of null arguments 

D. Silverman A case study in acoustic transparency: [spread glottis] and tone in Chinantec 

P. Spaelti Weak edges and final geminates in Swiss German 

L. Uyechi Local and global signing space in American Sign Language 


