NELS 25 1995 (U. of Pennsylvania: 1994) (2 vols.) [NELS25]

(ed.) J.N. Beckman

** This book counts as TWO items for domestic shipping

Volume One: Papers from the Main Sessions

J. Austin & L. López Nominative, Absolutive and Dative Languages 

J.S. Cole & C.W. Kisseberth Paradoxical Strength Conditions in Harmony Systems 

L. Conway & S. Crain Donkey Anaphora in Child Grammar 

M. Crowhurst & M.S. Hewitt Directional Footing, Degeneracy, and Alignment 

R-M. Déchaine Zero tense in Standard and in African American English 

H. Demirdache & L. Matthewson On the Universality of Syntactic Categories 

M. den Dikken Verb (Projection) Raising, Scope, and Uniform Phrase Structure 

J. Doetjes Quantification at a Distance and Iteration 

D. Embick Mobile Inflections in Polish 

D. Fox Economy, Scope and Semantic Interpretation – Evidence from VP Ellipsis 

S. Gahl Consonant Gradation as a Prosodic Constraint on Aperture Nodes 

J. Ginzburg The Quantificational Variability Effect (QVE) to some extent defused and generalized 

J. Guéron On HAVE and BE 

H. Harley Abstracting Away from Abstract Case 

C. Heycock The Internal Structure of Small Clauses: New Evidence from Inversion 

J. Hitzeman A Reichenbachian Account of the Interaction of the Present Perfect with Temporal Adverbials 

H. Hoji Demonstrative Binding and Principle B 

E. Hume & D. Odden The Superfluity of [Consonantal] 

S. Inkelas The consequences of Optimization for Underspecification 

G. Jäger Weak Quantifiers and Information Structure 

M. Johnston Adverbial Clauses with Adverbs of Quantification 

J. M. Kanerva & L.A. Gabriele Intonation and Focus Layers 

J.M. McDonough Generation and the prosodic enhancement strategy 

J. O’Neil Out of Control 

O. Rambow & B. Santorini Incremental Phrase Structure Generation and a Universal Theory of V2 

C. Reinholtz & K. Russell Quantified NPs in Pronominal Argument Languages: Evidence from Swampy Cree 

J. Sabel On Parallels and Differences Between Clitic Climbing and Long Scrambling & the Economy of Derivations 

C. Schmitt Antecedent Contained Deletion meets the Copy Theory 

C.T. Schütze Case, Verb Morphology & Argument Structure in Choctaw: A Minimalist Account 

W. Snyder A Neo-Davidsonian Approach to Adjuncts and the Syntax of Simultaneity 

V. Tredinnick Amount Relatives and the Presuppositional/Cardinal Distinction 

H. Truckenbrodt Extraposition from NP and Prosodic Structure 

E. Vallduví & E. Engdahl Information Packaging and Grammar Architecture 

L. Walsh Representing Laterals 

 

Volume Two: Papers from the Workshops on Language Acquisition & Language Change

Part One: Papers from the Workshop on Language Acquisition

A. Cardinaletti & M. Starke The Tripartition of Pronouns and its Acquisition: Principle B Puzzles are Ambiguity Problems 

K. Demuth Markedness and the Development of Prosodic Structure 

P. Fikkert Models of Acquisition: How to Acquire Stress 

T.H. Mintz, E.L. Newport, T.G. Bever Distributional Regularities of Form Class in Speech to Young Children 

B. Rohrbacher & A. Vainikka Verbs and Subjects before Age 2: The Earliest Stages in Germanic L1 Acquisition 

T. Sano Negation in the Acquisition of Japanese and Its Implications for Universals 

V. Sarma How many brances to the syntactic tree? Disagreements over agreement 

F. Wijnen Incremental Acquisition of Phrase Structure 

 

Part Two: Papers from the Workshop on Language Change

M.D. Arnold Notions of Economy in Language Change: The Spread of Periphrastic ‘Do’ 

J. Bonneau & P. Pica On the Development of the Complementation System in English and its Relation to Switch-Reference 

A. Calabrese Syncretism Phenomena in the Clitic Systems of Italian and Sardinian Dialects and the Notion of Morphological Change 

K. von Fintel The Formal Semantics of Grammaticalization 

S. Frisch Evidence for Economy of Projection in Historical Change 

E. Guilfoyle Infinitivals and the Transparency Principle Revisted 

H. Jacobs Optmality Theory and Sound Change 

Y. Rivera-Castillo From Adjectives to Determiners: the Phonology-Syntax Connection 

K. Zubritskaya Markedness and Sound Change in OT 


