NELS 31 2001 (Georgetown University, 2000) (2 vols.) [NELS31]

(eds.) Kim, M.-J. and U. Strauss 

Tonal Complexes and Tonal Alignment: Akin Akinlabi and Mark Liberman 
Avoid-F in ACD: Ana Arregui · 
Syntactic dependencies versus trace deletion: evidence from Korean and Spanish: Alan Beretta, John Halliwell, Alan Munn, and Cristina Schmitt
An MEG Study of Tone Processing Asymmetries in English versus Mandarin Speakers: Benjamin Bruening, Elissa Flagg, Vivian Lin 
Floating Quantifiers and 1-Role Assignment: Zeljko Boškovic 
A Typology of Rhotic Duration Contrast and Neutralization: Travis G. Bradley 
Proper Binding Condition Effects are Phase Impenetrability Condition Effects: Carlo Cecchetto 
Synchronic Handshape Variation in ASL: Evidence of Coarticulation: Andrianne Cheek
Deletion Under Identity in Relative Clauses: Barbara Citko 
Reconsidering identification focus: Jocelyn Cohan 
What the hell?!: Marcel den Dikken and Anastasia Giannakidou 
Intonation Patterns of Particle Verb Constructions in English: Nicole Dehé 
Bypassing subjacency effects: How event structure amnesties extraction out of object NPs: William D. Davies and Stanley Dubinsky 
Ellipsis in Spanish and the Stranded Affix Filter: Marcela A. Depiante 
The Double Scope of Quantifier Phrases: Cornelia Endriss and Andreas Haida 
Working Memory and Syntactic Complexity in Brazilian Portuguese and English: Ana C. Gouvea and David Poeppel 
On the semantics of as and be. A neo-Carlsonian account: Gerhard Jäger 
Acoustic Effects of Stress in Korean: With a Focus on the Status of Vowel Length: Eon-Suk Ko 
When Can You Save a Structure by Destroying It?: Howard Lasnik 
Relative Clauses Without Wh-Movement: Felicia Lee 
Phases and the syntax of applicatives: Martha McGinnis 
Associating EPP with N-completeness: Norio Nasu
On the Absence of Non-Factive Complementation in Certain Languages: Lynn Nichols 
Clausal and TP-Defective Gerunds: Control Without Tense: Acrisio Pires
Agrammatic Aphasic Comprehension of Thematic Role Assignment in Indonesian: Whitney Anne Postman 
Explaining Vowel Inventory Tendencies via Simulation: Finding a Role for Quantal Locations and Formant Normalization: Brian Roark
 What "Simple" Clitics Tell Us about "Complex" Nominal Expressions: Penka Stateva 
The Syntax of Reduplication: Lisa deMena Travis 
Reset on a Boundary Tone: Hubert Truckenbrodt 
Improper Remnant A-movement: Takae Tsujioka 
Tense on D and (the Lack of) Nominative Case: Martina Wiltschko 
Phonetics Stress Cues in Noun-Verb Pairs in American English vs. Indian English: Caroline R. Wiltshire and Russell Moon 
The Complex Interaction of Tone and Prominence: Moira Yip 
