NELS 20 1990 (Carnegie-Mellon University: 1989) (2 vols.)  [NELS20]

(eds.) J. Carter, R.M. Déchaine, B. Philip, & T. Sherer

D. Abusch & M. Rooth Temporal adverbs and the English perfect 

B. Bagemihl Syllable structure in Bella Coola 

S. Berman On certain differences between Wh-phrases and indefinites 

T.G. Bever, K. Straub, K. Shenkman, J. Kim, & C. Carrithers The psychological reality of NP-trace 

J. Boyd Coreferential subjects and subjacency 

Y.-M.Y. Cho The organization of the place node 

I. Comorovski Verb movement and obejct extraction in French 

P. Farrell Psych-movement as P incorporation: evidence from Italian 

L. Gerken A metrical account of children’s subjectless sentences 

J. Ginzburg On the nonunity of symmetric predicates: monadic comitatives and dyadic equivalence relations 

M. Halle An approach to morphology 

L. Heggie An ECP account of the non-overt copula in Israeli Hebrew 

A. Hestvik LF-movement of pronouns 

N. Hornstein Verb raising in Icelandic infinitives 

E. Hume Front vowels, palatal consonants and the rule of umlaut in Korean 

A. Kathol A uniform approach to V2 in German 

R. Kayne Romance clitics and PRO 

M. Labelle Unaccusatives and pseudo-unaccusatives in French 

D. Lebeaux Relative clauses, licensing, and the nature of the derivation 

J. Léma & M.-L. Rivero Long head movement: ECP vs. HMC 

A. Lobeck Functional heads as proper governors 

M.A. Macken Prosodic edge-in association 

A.G.B. ter Meulen English aspectual verbs as generalized quantifiers 

G. Milsark & D.X. Li Arbitrary reflexives in Chinese 

A. Nakhimovsky Pragmatic factors in the interpretation of generics 

W. Ni & S. Crain How to resolve structural ambiguities 

K. Rice & P. Avery On the representation of voice 

V. Srivastav Hindi Wh and pleonastic operators 

K. Tateishi Syntax of the conditional topic construction in Japanese 

C. Tellier Underived nominals and the Projection Principle: inherent possessors 

M.Yip Tone, phonation, and intonation register 

J. Yoon Theta-theory and the grammar of inalienable possession constructions 

R. Zanuttini Two types of negative markers 


