NELS 29 1999 (University of Delaware) (2 vols.)  [NELS29]

(eds.) P. Tamanji, M. Hirotani & N. Hall

 
B. Agbayani The Locality and Optionality of Scrambling 

M. Ahh Vowel Length-Driven Syllable Weight 

A. Alexiadou Remarks on the Syntax of Process Nominals: An Ergative Pattern in Nominative-Accusative Languages 

A. Alexiadou and E. Anagnostopolou Non-active Morphology and the Direction of Transitivity Alternations 

E. Anagnostopulou On Clitics, Feature Movement and Double Object Alternations 

M. C. Baker and O.T. Stewart Verb Movement, Objects, and Serialization 

S. Bird Multidimensional Exploration of Online Linguistic Field Data 

R. C. Blight Subject Positions and Ellipsis 

C. Boeckx Expletive Split: Existentials and Presenatationals 

P. Branigan and M. Mackenzie Binding Relations and the Nature of 'pro' in Innu-aimun 

M. Cote Edge Effects and the Prosodic Hierarchy: Evidence from Stops and Affricates in Basque 

K. F. Drozd and C. Koster Dutch Children's Comprehension of Bound Variable Constructions 

N. Duffield and A. Matsuo On the Acquisition of Ellipsis and Anaphora by First and Second Language Learners 

P. Elbourne Some Correlations between Semantic Plurality and Quantifier Scope 

T. Ernest Adjuncts, The universal Base, and Word Order typology 

T. B. Fernald An Anaphoric Account of Stage-Level Predicates 

A. Gafos and L. Lombardi Consonant transparency and vowel echo 

G. O. Hansson 'When in Doubt…': Intraparadigmatic Dependencies and Gaps in Icelandic 

J. Jun Generalized Sympathy 

D. Karvonen and A. Sherman Opacity in Icelandic: A Sympathy Account 

A. Kathol and K. Vanbik Morphology-Syntax Interface in Lai Relative Clauses 

J. Kim Constraints on the Formation of Korean and English Resultative Constructions 

S. Kim Tone Spread Decomposed 

A. Kochetov Constraints on Distribution of Palatalized Stops: Evidence from Licensing by Cue 

N. Kondrashova Barenaked Tenses and Their Morphological Outfits 

I. Landou Control and Extraposition: The Case of Super-Equi 

F. Lee Evidence for Tense in a "Tenseless" Language 

J. A. Legate On the Interpretation of Indefinites 

A. Miller-Ockhuizen Reduplication in Ju| 'hoansi: Tone Determines Weight 

P. Monachesi Syntactic and Prosodic Properties of Italian Restructuring Verbs 

B. Morén Syllable Weight Asymmetries in Distinctive and Coercive Environments 

M. Ochi Multiple Spell-Out and PF Adjacency 

J. Rooryck and G. V. Wyngaerd Puzzles of Identity: Binding at the Interface 

U. Sauerland Why Variables? 

C. Schmitt and A. Munn Against the Nominal Mapping Parameter: Bare Nouns in Brazilian Portuguese 

J. Shimoyama Complex NPs and Wh-Quantification in Japanese 

H. L. Soh Object scrambling in Chinese: A comparison with scrambling in Dutch and German 

S. Stjepanoviƒ Multiple Sluicing and Superiority in Serbo-Croatian 

I. Toivonen Swedish Place Expressions 

H. Tokizaki Prosodic Phrasing and Bare Phrase Structure 

C. Tortora Agreement, Case, and i-subjects 

T. Toyoshima Move 1st: A Dynamic Economy Plan 

S. Vegnaduzzo and T. Szalai Sequence of Aspects (and Lack thereof) in Naudm 

E. Villalta Resolution of Scope Ambiguities in 'How Many' Questions 

S. vukiƒ On Case and the Minimal Link Condition 

J. Zhang The /n/-/õ / Asymmetry upon /‹ /-Suffixation in Beijing and Elsewhere -- A Phonetically Based OT Analysis 

X. Zhou Mandarin Negations as Negative Aspectual Elements 

 


