The Role of Syntactic Categories in Anaphora

February 1995

Tohru Noguchi, B.A., Waseda University

M.A., University of Tokyo

Ph.D., University of Massachusetts

Directed by: Professor Hagit Borer

 

The nature of personal pronouns is different from one language to another.In many languages, personal pronouns can be construed as bound variablesin the logical representation. Except neuter forms, Japanese personalpronouns differ in this respect and cannot be construed as boundvariables. 

One of the major purposes of this thesis is to investigate thiscross-linguistic difference from the viewpoint of the role syntacticcatogories play in anaphoric relations. The leading idea is that theso-called "functional" categories play an active role in binding. It willbe shown that English personal pronouns are what I call "D-pronouns" andcan be construed as bound variables, whereas Japanese personal pronounsare what I call "N-pronouns" and cannot be so construed.

This cross-linguistic difference does not exclude a language-internalvariation, and it will be shown that English personal pronouns can behaveas N-pronouns in certain constructions, and that certain types of Japanesepersonal pronouns can behave as D-pronouns. The language-internalasymmetry further supports the idea that the categorial distinction iswhat is at stake in binding. 

Within the framework which crucially distinguishes binding fromcoreference (cf. Reinhart 1983, 1986, Grodzinsky and Reinhart 1993), theidea that only functional items can enter into binding leads us to expectthat Japanese personal pronouns can only enter into coreference. I will infact argue that Japanese personal pronouns are not subject to the bindingtheory and that their distribution is regulated in terms of a constrainton coreference.

The idea that functional categories play a major role in pronominalanaphora is extended to relations involving anaphors. By incorporatingBorer's (1989) insight that an agreement head is anaphoric in obligatorycontrol configuration, I will show that control in general involvesbinding into a functional head and discuss two basic types of obligatorycontrol: control into CP and control into DP. I will further argue thatcontrol involves selection of an anaphoric feature by the matrix verb.This captures not only the parallelism between control and reflexivebinding, but also certain differences between them.


