The Germanic VO Languages and the Full Paradigm: A Theory of V to I Raising


Bernhard Wolfgang Rohrbacher


M.A., University of Massachusetts, Amherst, Ph.D., University of Massachusetts, Amherst


Directed by: Professor Margaret Speas


 


This dissertation investigates the conditions under which the verb moves
to the highest inflectional category. The description and the
morpho-syntactic theory of V to I raising are initially based on those
Germanic languages that have a left-headed verb phrase (English, Yiddish
and the Scandinavian languages), although data from Romance languages
(Italian, French, and European and Brazilian Portuguese) are later shown
to support the same conclusions. V to I raising occurs in those languages
where, in the singular or plural of at least one tense, subject-verb
agreement uniquely marks the person features [1st] and [2nd] by overtly
distinguishing the forms for first and second person from each other, the
form for third person and the infinitive. This correlation can be
explained if it is assumed that the lexicon contains all and only
referential elements and the referential features of inflection are those
for person (and number). The paradigms of inflectional affixes which
distinctively mark [1st], [2nd] and [singular] are referential and hence
listed in the lexicon. Inserted under the highest inflection head, these
affixes trigger V to I raising in order to be bound. The paradigms of
inflectional affixes which fail to distinctively mark one of the
referential inflectional features are non-referential and hence not listed
in the lexicon. Affixes of these paradigms are postsyntactic spell-outs of
the abstract agreement features on the verb. The highest inflectional head
remains empty throughout syntax and V to I raising is not triggered. This
theory is corroborated by the fact that in the history of English and
Mainland Scandinavian, V to I raising was lost after one of the
referential inflectional features ceased to be distinctively marked. The
difference between lexical and post-syntactic inflectional affixes also
plays a crucial role in the theory of empty referential subjects.
Projections must be identified via distinct phonological or semantic
matrixes in their specifiers or their heads (Speas (1993)). Accordingly,
the s-structural subject position (i.e. the specifier of the highest
inflectional projection) can remain empty in languages with referential,
lexical agreement affixes, but it must be overtly filled in languages with
non-referential, post-syntactic agreement affixes.



