The Meters of John Webster

(September 1, 1984)

Betty Jane Schlerman, B.A., University of Minnesota

M.A., University of Washington

Ph.D., University of Massachusetts

Directed by: Professor Alan S. Prince

Against the prevailing view of John Webster's meters as irregular andunsystematic, this study takes the position that they are a principledinstantiation of the iambic pentameter. The analysis is developed within aframework that expresses in a footed, gridded template those distinctionsof prominence and phrasing that are relevant to meter.

The typography of Webster's plays suggests an inflated syllable count thatis seriously misleading. The proper scansion of Webster's verse requiresextensive allowance for the phonological modifications whereby, in rapidor casual speech, certain lexical syllables and clitics becomedesyllabified. Abundant independent attestation of such forms in a varietyof prose documents of the period confirms that Webster's use ofresoolution is a phonological, and not metrical, feature of his verse, andone that reflects a further lowering of the speech register consideredappropriate to tragedy.

For non-resolved syllables, Webster's metrical system preeminentlyexploits the mirror-image extension to the more highly-marked end of theirdomain of two well established metrical variations. His verse thusincludes numerous domain-initial extrametrical syllables and domain-finallexical trochees.

Along with many of his contempraries, Webster both admits a stressedcontent monosyllable in metrical W phrase-finally and allows its precedingsyllable a certain range of salience. Limits on the variety of syllabletypes with which poets precede phrasal mismatches can be expressed bypositing a gridded hierarchy for the syllables of English. Webster alsoobserves a possibly global constraint against contiguous stressedsyllables that straddle a foot boundary in mid-phrase.

Finally, Webster's metrical system includes a constraint that limits thetypes of metrical variations that can co-occur within a given line. Thatthe verses of John Donne are not so constrained suggests that it is theincidence of metrical variation, and not their type, that gives Donne'spoetry its distinctive metrical character. It also suggests that the needto regulate the incidence of metrical variations specifically in the dramastems from limitations in the human auditory capacity for on-lineprocessing of metered verse.


