Title: UMOP 28: Proceedings of the Semantics of Under-Represented Languages in 
the Americas (SULA) 2. The UBC meeting, held 14-16 March 2003 

Table of contents: 

Friday 14 March 

1. Relative tense vs. aspect: The case reopened 
Jürgen Bohnemeyer, SUNY, Buffalo and Max Planck Institute for 
Psycholinguistics 
 
2. Situation types in American Sign Language 
Christian Rathmann, University of Texas 
 
3. Early time reference in Inuktitut child language: The role of event 
realization and aspectual interpretation 
Mary Swift, University of Rochester 
 
4. Focus Constructions in Yucatec Maya 
Invited Speaker: Judith Tonhauser, Stanford 
 
5. Not even in Samish 
Invited Speaker: Scott Shank, University of British Columbia 
 
6. Is todo in Brazilian Portuguese a Quantifier? 
Roberta Pires (Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina) 

7. Invited speaker: Peter Jacobs, Squamish Nation 

Saturday 15 March 
8. The semantics of discontinuous noun phrases in Quechua 
Invited Speaker: Rachel Hastings, Cornell University 
 
9. Anaphoric R-expressions as bound variables 
Invited Speaker: Felicia Lee, University of British Columbia 
 
10. Toward the tenseless analysis of a tenseless language 
Benjamin Shaer, Zentrum für Allgemeine Sprachwissenschaft 
 
11. Temporal interpretation in Navajo 
Carlota Smith, University of Texas 
Ted Fernald, Swarthmore College 
Ellavina Perkins, Flagstaff, Arizona 
 
12. Presuppositionality and attitude subordination in Zuni 
Lynn Nichols, University of California, Berkeley 
 
13. Wh-variables and Wh-movement parameters 
Benjamin Bruening, University of Delaware 

14. Controlled context elicitations 
Invited Speaker: Strang Burton, Sto:lo Nation 
 
15. Spatio-temporal deixis and evidentiality in Cuzco Quechua 
Martina Faller, University of Nijmegen and Max-Planck-Institute for 
Psycholinguistics 
 
16. Subject generic sentences in Brazilian Portuguese 
Ana Muller, University of São Paulo 

Sunday 16 March 
17. Quantifiers and scope in ASL and ISN 
Invited Speakers: Judy Shepard-Kegl, University of Southern Maine 
Brenda Schertz, University of Southern Maine 
 
18. Imperfectivity in Skwxwú7mesh (Squamish Salish) 
Leora Bar-el, University of British Columbia 
 
19. Generalizing in Navajo 
Ted Fernald, Swarthmore College 
Ellavina Perkins, Flagstaff, Arizona 
Carlota Smith, University of Texas 
 
20. What West Greenlandic habitual aspect marking tells us about 
characterizing sentences 
Veerle van Geenhoven, Universiteit Nijmegen 

