UMOP 40: The Leader of the Pack: A Festschrift in Honor of Peggy Speas 
edited by Rodica Ivan
332 pages
ISBN-13: 978-1729697481
ISBN-10: 1729697488 

This volume, UMOP 40, includes a collection of papers by students, former students and colleagues, in honor of the ever wonderful Peggy Speas. We are forever in Peggy's debt for inspiring all this wonderful work in so many different areas of Linguistics over the years. This list of papers, including contributions in Syntax, Semantics, Phonology, Morphology and Language Processing, is only a small sample of all of the brilliant work Peggy advised, inspired, and improved. Contents: Verbal Classifiers in Sign Languages. . . Agreement vs AGREE? (Elena E. Benedicto), The semantics of the future in Navajo (Elizabeth Bogal-Allbritten), Class Structure: Verb Classes as Argument Structure in Cherokee (Leah Chapman), Parasynthetic verbs: The Missing Category (Eva J. Daussà), Indexiphors: Notes on embedded indexicals, shifty agreement, and logophoricity (Amy Rose Deal), How Do Children Deal with Shifted Indexicals? (Jill de Villiers, Ann Nordmeyer & Tom Roeper), Valence Shifting Operations in Navajo (Theodore Fernald & Ellavina Perkins), A note on the prosody and interpretation of final phrases (Lyn Frazier & Charles Clifton Jr.), Who knows what and how? New Evidence about the Acquisition of Evidentials in Tibetan (Jay L. Garfield & Jill de Villiers), Pseudo-pronouns, Honorifics, and Generic Terms in Dhivehi (Amalia E. Gnanadesikan), Negative Inversion and Conditionals in African American English (Lisa Green), What 'other people' mean to 'us' (Christopher Hammerly), Multiple Exponence and Fission: Number in Muskogee Creek (Kimberly Johnson), To give someone their innocence again (Kyle Johnson), A phonological analysis of verb agreement in sign languages (Noriko Kawasaki), Point of View and the Behavior of Korean Demonstratives (Min-Joo Kim), On the limited set of evidential types (Andrew McKenzie), Dependencies are all alike; every illusion is illusory in its own way (Shayne Sloggett, Caroline Andrews & Brian Dillon), When is Positing Covert Ergative Case Justified? (Ellen Woolford) Peggy, thank you for being such an amazing researcher, teacher, friend and overall incredible human being. Thank you for all the light you bring into our hearts and minds. 