Patterns of Reduplication in Lushootseed

May 1996

Suzanne Claire Urbanczyk, 
B.Sc., University of Victoria
M.A., University of Victoria
Ph.D., University of Massachusetts Amherst

Directed by: Professor John J. McCarthy

 
This thesis examines the phonological properties of three reduplicative
morphemes in Lushootseed, a Central Coast Salish language. It is argued
that both the shape and segmental content of these morphemes follow from
their classification as either root or affix. Expanding on proposals by
McCarthy and Prince (1994a), a model of reduplication is developed in
which reduplicative morphemes are specified only for morphological
category: Generalized Template Theory (GT). The central hypothesis is that
root reduplicants are more marked phonologically than affix reduplicants.
This is manifest in differences in size, shape, segmental content, and
segmental copying.
The segmental content of reduplicative morphemes (RED) is attained via a
correspondence relation between reduplicant and base. Set within
Optimality Theory (Prince and Smolensky 1993), constraints which evaluate
the identity of base and reduplicant are ranked and violable. The
structural conditions on RED are the result of base-reduplicant identity
constraints interacting with phono-constraints. There are no templates.
Chpter 2 proposes that the fixed shape of reduplicative morphemes is best
explained as a set of structural conditions, formally represented as
constraint interaction. The same constraint interaction will derive a CV-
prefix and a -VC suffix. Both are affixes and are less marked than the CVC
root reduplicant. Moreover, -VC shape is not template spellable, but its
structural conditions are typical of other suffixes in Lushootseed.
In Chapter 4, a pattern of fixed segmentism is analyzed as an instance of
unmarked structure emerging in reduplication. A default segment occurs
with both affixal reduplicants, whenever the base would supply marked
structure. In contrast, the root reduplicant would permit the marked
structure, as predicted by GT. Some of the conditioning environments for
the default segment (stress and syllable structure), are examined in
Chapter 3.
An examination of doubly-reduplicated stems in Chapter 5 shows that the
base must be an adjacent string, present in the output only. The different
patterns of copying are explained because the root allows the marked
option of copying both root and affix material, while the affixes only
copy root material.
 