A Metrical Approach to Tone Sandhi in Chinese Dialects

February 1983

Martha Susan Wright, B.F.A., Cornell University
MA, University of Washington
Ph.D. University of Massachusetts, Amherst
Directed by: Prof. Alan S. Prince

    This dissertation presents studies of tone sandhi in four major southeast Chinese dialects, Fuzhou, Shanghai, Chaozhou, and Amoy, with major emphasis on Fuzhou.  The dissertation argues that the sandhi found in two of these dialects is the result of an interaction between duration and tone, which interactions can be expressed easily within the limits of the 'metrical theory' on stress, first developed in Liberman and Prince (1977) and expanded in recent works, most notably Hayes (1980).

    Fuzhou and Shanghai, which have some of the more complicated sandhi systems of the Chinese languages, are argued to have two or three syllable stress-feet, with a strongly stressed syllable grouped together with weekly stressed syllables.   The weakly stressed syllables are shown to have shortened duration and loss of part of all the original distinctive tonal contour.  The details of this lowss and constraints on the tonal phonology of Fuzhou and Shanghai form the bulk of the discussion of this dissertation.

        These dialects are contrasted to the Southern Min dialects of Amoy and Chaozhou, for which no such local level sandhi exists, and for which the analysis argues for phrase-lev [sic] phrase-final tonal changes from the traditional 'combination' form to the traditional 'isolation' form.  This unorthodox approach to tonal changes in these dialects is shown to simplify morphological processes and local tone rules which exist in these languages.

    Finally, a fragment of Fuzhou external sandhi patterns is examined and the analysis argues that the same tpes of rules which apply to form stress-feet re-apply at the phrase-level.  Certain complications are brought about in external sandhi due to the special nature of clitics in stress rules, and the part which thematic roles play in defining domainsm but the general pattern is clear: phrase-level stressing in Fuzhou is a fairly local pattern, which forms a clear contrast to the Southern Min dialects.


